---
layout: project
title: "Optical fiber meta-tips"
description: Optical fiber, metasurface, lab on fiber, optical sensing 
tagline: Meta-tips
image-icon: /assets/images/projects/meta-tip.png
image-text: /assets/images/projects/meta-tip1.png
MTM: true
tags: [metamaterials, metasurfaces, optical fibers, plasmonics, lab-on-fiber]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Metasurfaces are 2-D implementations of metamaterials that are eliciting a growing attention in view the
inherent simplification in the fabrication process, by comparison with three-dimensional bulk nanostructures, and their 
compatibility with on-chip photonics. Taking inspiration from reflect/transmit-array radio-frequency antennas,
typical metasurface implementations rely on two-dimensional arrays of resonators which can locally impress abrupt phase and 
amplitude variations in an impinging wavefront, while maintaining a deeply-subwavelength profile by exploiting
plasmonic or high-index dielectric nanoantennas.

A possible development of strategic importance is the metasurface integration with fiber-
optics technology. This fits naturally within the recently emerged *lab-on-fiber* technology, which envisions the
integration of optical fibers with nanophotonic and/or nanoplasmonic platforms enabling for nanoscale control of
light, thereby substantially expanding the functionalities of conventional and specialty fibers, with potential
applications ranging from optical processing to environmental monitoring, life science, safety and security.

In collaboration with [Andrea Cusano]'s Group (University of Sannio),
we presented in [{% cite IJ124_LSA_6_6226a_2017 %}] a first proof-of-principle example of a “meta-tip”, featuring 
a plasmonic metasurface integrated on the tip of an optical fiber, as schematized in the figure top panel.
The metasurface was designed so as to impress a linear phase (constant gradient) profile along an in-plane direction. As
typical for metasurface implementations based on a single layer of plasmonic nanoantennas, in order to achieve a full 
 excursion in the desired phase distribution for the transmitted field, we exploited a polarization-conversion mechanism. 
 In our case, a light beam paraxially impinging from the fiber core is split into an
ordinary and an anomalous beam, with the former essentially unaffected in shape, direction and polarization,
and the latter steered of an angle \\(\theta_t\\) along the gradient direction and orthogonally polarized. 
The figure top panel also illustrates the generalized Snell's laws governing this phenomenon, as well as 
unit-cell of our Babinet-inverted metasurface, consisting of a rectangular aperture nanoantenna 
(rotated by an angle of 45° in the x-y plane) in a 50nm-thick gold film.
The center panels show the scanning-electron-microscope images of a meta-tip prototype fabricated in
collaboration with the [CNR Institute for Microelectronics and Microsystems] and the [ENEA UTTP-MDB], via 
focused-ion-beam milling.
The bottom panels illustrates the results of the far-field characterization, without polarization control. 
There is a very good correspondence between the main and secondary peaks in the
numerical profiles with those in the experimental intensity maps, from which we can unambiguously associate the main peak
with the ordinary (co-polarized) beam, and the secondary peak with the anomalous beam. Moreover, the numerically-computed total field intensities averaged over x- and y-polarized illuminations (dashed magenta
curves) are in fairly good agreement with the experimental intensity profiles (solid black curves).
We also carried out polarization-controlled measurements, which confirmed the theoretically predicted response.

This proof-of-principle meta-tip demonstration paves the way to the integration of the exceptional field-manipulation
capabilities enabled by metasurfaces within the emerging lab-on-fiber technologies. Also of great interest is the excitation
of novel type of surface waves for label-free [sensing applications]. 



[Andrea Cusano]: http://www.optoelectronics.ing.unisannio.it/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&layout=edit&id=100
[CNR Institute for Microelectronics and Microsystems]: http://sles11web.imm.cnr.it
[ENEA UTTP-MDB]: http://uttp.enea.it/index.asp?p=12&t=Materiali%20e%20nuove%20tecnologie
[sensing applications]: /projects/MTM_optical-sensing



## Relevant papers
{% bibliography --cited_in_order %}