---
layout: project
title: "Multiphysics metamaterials"
description: Metamaterials, multiphysics, cloaking, coordinate transformation, thermoelectrics
tagline: Multiphysics
image-icon: /assets/images/projects/multiphysics_MTM.png
image-text: /assets/images/projects/multiphysics_MTM1.png
MTM: true
tags: [metamaterials, multiphysics, cloaking, thermoelectrics]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

During the past few years, the [transformation-optics] approach has been also successfully applied 
to the manipulation of a variety of other different physical quantities like acoustic and elastic waves, 
static magnetic and electric fields, and heat flux, in view of the mounting interest towards metamaterials 
beyond electromagnetics. 

Although it seems suggestive to coherently exploit these various approaches to design 
multifunctional devices capable of performing multiple functions in different physical domains, 
most studies available in the literature deal with the design of a single functionality in a given physical domain.

In collaboration with [Yuki Sato]’s Group (Harvard University), 
we have recently introduced an approach to the design of metamaterial shells 
capable of governing different physicals phenomena in an independent fashion [{% cite IJ112_PRX_4_021025_2014 %}]. 

From the mathematical viewpoint, our relies on the well-known coordinate-transformation framework. 
Viewing the rerouting of energy flow as a distortion of space from a coordinate transformation, 
this technique provides a powerful and systematic recipe for designing and fabricating artificial 
structures that can mold the flow of a given physical quantity in a desired fashion. 

Conventionally, this theory is applied to a single physical domain. 
In our approach, we instead exploit separate but intertwined coordinate transformations to 
simultaneously manipulate multiple physical phenomena in independent fashions. 
Thus, for instance, a material may be designed to exhibit a particular thermal functionality while 
its electrical functionality is made drastically different.

As a proof-of-concept example, we have synthesized and designed
 a metamaterial shell that behaves simultaneously as a thermal concentrator and an electrical invisibility 
 cloak. In such a shell, the thermal and electrical currents follow markedly different paths, 
 with the former concentrating in the inner region and the latter circumventing that region, as schematized
 in the figure top panel. The bottom panel shows instead the thermal and electrical responses, which exhibit 
 the expected behaviors.
 
Although the results of this study are based on theory and numerical simulations, 
they do indicate that practical realization of these metamaterials should be within 
reach of current fabrication technologies. Our numerical simulations indeed show that they 
can be fabricated by means of small sub-blocks made of realistic materials, 
such as aluminum nitride and silver conductive epoxies.


 Such design may be considered as a first step towards a more general 
 framework that could be defined as “transformation-multiphysics”, which may be in principle extended and applied 
 to a variety of electrical, magnetic, acoustic, and thermal systems in various combinations, 
 and may be integrated in advanced materials, spanning multiple orders of magnitude in material scales.
 
 Besides serving as a proof-of-principle, the independent manipulation of electrical and thermal currents 
 is also very important from the application viewpoint.
 One particularly intriguing application is the engineering of thermoelectric materials, 
 which hold great promises for energy recycling, by converting waste heat 
 (e.g., generated by the CPU of a computer) into additional electrical power. 
 For these materials, the independent control of electrical and thermal conductivities is of paramount importance, 
 and it may affect the figure of merit in ways unexplored in the past.
 
 [Yuki Sato]: http://www2.rowland.harvard.edu/people/yuki-sato
 [transformation-optics]: /projects/TO-MTM

## Relevant papers
{% bibliography --cited_in_order %}