---
layout: project
title: "Coding metasurfaces for diffuse scattering"
description: Metasurface, coding, digital, diffuse scattering, microwave measurements, full-wave 
tagline: Digital
image-icon: /assets/images/projects/coding_MS.png
image-text: /assets/images/projects/coding_MS1.png
MTM: true
tags: [metasurfaces, diffuse scattering, flat polynomials]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

*Digital* and *coding* metasurfaces, based on the combination of a limited number of basic unit cells, 
have been the subject of intense research. In their simplest form, only two element-
types (labeled as "1" and "0") are employed, so that the meta-surface design can be effectively associated with 
a 2D binary coding. 
Further versatility can be introduced by employing more than two unit cells, 
corresponding to multibit coding. Moreover, by exploiting *reconfigurable* unit cells 
(whose response can be switched, e.g., by means of a biased diode or a microelectromechanical system), 
the coding is no longer irreversibly bound to the structure design, but can be controlled, e.g., via a field-programmable gate array.

Among the most prominent applications, particularly worth of mention are those to 
field shaping in reverberating scenarios,
computational imaging, and dynamic control of polarization, wavefront and scattering signature,
 as well as of information entropy.
 
In a recent study [{% cite IJ127_AdOM_2017 %}] in collaboration with [Tie Jun Cui]'s Group (Southeast University),
we have addressed the design of coding metasurfaces for *diffuse scattering*.

In particular, via a theoretical study of the relevant scaling-laws, we 
elucidated the physical mechanism underlying the scattering-signature reduction, 
and we analytically derived some absolute and realistic bounds. 
Moreover, we introduced a simple, deterministic sub-optimal design strategy inspired by the theory of *flat polynomials*.
Such strategy, based on the so-called Golay-Rudin-Shapiro (GRS) polynomials,
 yields results comparable with those typically obtained by approaches based on the brute-force numerical optimization, 
at a negligible fraction of their computational burden, thereby paving the way to the design of structures with 
arbitrarily large electrical size.

The upper-left panel shows a typical radar-cross-section (RCS) pattern attained via our approach (\\(P_3\\)-type GRS polynomial), 
for an operational frequency of 10 GHz. 
As illustrated in the top-right panel, our numerical simulations are in good agreement with microwave measurements.
Finally, the bottom panels show the simulated (left) and measured (right) comparisons with a metallic 
plate of same size, from which a significant reduction (>10 dB) of the RCS can be observed.

Our results may be of interest in a variety of application fields, such as the design of low-scattering targets 
and illumination apertures for computational imaging, not necessarily restricted to electromagnetic scenarios.



[Tie Jun Cui]: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-h-1eJsAAAAJ&hl=en


## Relevant papers
{% bibliography --cited_in_order %}