---
layout: project
title: "Aperiodic-tiling antenna arrays"
description: Aperiodic tiling, antenna array, 
tagline: Tiling antenna arrays
image-icon: /assets/images/projects/aperiodic_AA.png
image-text: /assets/images/projects/aperiodic_AA1.png
aperiodic: true
tags: [aperiodic tilings, antenna arrays]
---
{% include JB/setup %}


Our Group has been among the pioneers in the application of aperiodically ordered structures in electromagnetics. 

In [{% cite IJ28_IEEE_TAP_53_635_2005 %}], 
in collaboration with the late Prof. [Leo Felsen] (Boston University),
 we first introduced the concept of “aperiodic tiling” in the theory of antenna arrays. 
This study clarifies some fundamental theoretical aspects related to the effects of “order” and “symmetry” 
in the radiation characteristics. Moreover, it identifies certain aperiodic configurations particularly 
interesting in terms of bandwidth and sidelobe level.

The figure illustrates the inflection rule to generate a particular (Danzer) aperiodic tiling (top), and the 
corresponding radiation spectrum (bottom), from which it can be observed a 14-fold rotational symmetry and the absence of grating lobes.

A major complication that arises when dealing with aperiodic structures is the lack of the typical 
analytical tools available for periodic geometries.
In [{% cite IJ32_IEEE_TAP_53_2044_2005 %}], with specific reference to a 
“modified-Fibonacci” *quasi-periodic* sequence, we showed a
two-scale generalization of the standard Poisson summation formula for periodic arrays. 
This allows for a “quasi-Floquet” analytic parameterization of the radiated field, 
which provides instructive insights into some of the basic wave mechanisms associated with quasi-periodic order. 
These results were also extended to account for the presence of a dielectric substrate [{% cite IJ42_JEWA_21_1231_2007 %}].

In [{% cite IJ33_IEEE_TAP_53_3568_2005 %}], we explored various configurations 
generated by Rudin-Shapiro sequences, which constitute one of the simplest conceivable 
examples of deterministic aperiodic geometries featuring random-like (dis)order. 
In particular, we showed that these might find interesting applications to the synthesis of
*omnidirectional* and *thinned* arrays.

Finally, in [{% cite IJ39_IEEE_TAP_55_1554_2007 %}], we studied 
the plane-wave scattering from general one-dimensional aperiodically ordered 
strip-array geometries based on two-symbol substitution rules. By exploiting theoretical results from solid-state physics 
and discrete geometry, we showed that a wealth of scattering signatures, 
with (sometime counter-intuitive) spectral characteristics ranging from quasiperiodic to quasirandom, 
can be obtained via judicious exploitation of the additional geometrical and/or constitutive degrees of 
freedom available in aperiodic configurations. In particular, we highlighted the role played by the substitution 
rule (and, specifically, the arithmetical properties of the associated substitution matrix), the scale-ratio, 
the element scattering responde, and the array size.

## Relevant papers
{% bibliography --cited_in_order %}

[Leo Felsen]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leopold_B._Felsen